only 5,000 worshippers have been able to
perform Friday praise at the alaa mosque
due to restrictions sahat isn't occupied
East Jerusalem near the AL aamos
compound where Israeli forces fired tear
gas on worshippers going to Friday
prayers we're just going to get out of
the way cuz the smelly water tank is
coming over we don't want to get sprayed
by that but Samir will show you as it's
coming tear gas has been fired and
that's the skunk water spray oh you've
just seen a cameraman fall there this is
the scene that we're seeing every single
week now every Friday prayer
surprisingly earlier we didn't see
anything happening and we were surprised
it seemed really quiet as soon as the
worshippers left M this is what happened
we suddenly saw the Israeli forces
heading down here this is WHYY draws
just up the road there is occupied East
Jerusalem that tank there this is the
one that comes out every single week to
this area it stinks it smells really bad
and they spray all of the streets here
earlier last week we were seeking to one
of the guys who told us that it really
affects their business because no one
wants to come down this route I just
want to give you an idea of what happens
tear gas has just been fired there I
want to give you an idea of why this
happens every week every week young
worshippers try to head to Al AA mosque
just there up the road they are
prevented from reaching there they don't
even manage to get close enough because
the Israeli forces every single Friday
push them back with tear gas and with
this uh water now they only allow those
that are older in age to get past and
then what you often
see is those above the age of 60 we're
being moved now and this is the kind of
attitude they've had towards the Press
we're moving we're moving don't worry no
need to push this is the attitude they
have towards the media like ourselves
yesterday we tried to cover a march by
Ultra nationalists uh heading towards
the old Damascus gate which was
incredibly controversial and
inflammatory and even then the police
told us that we had to move further back
we explained to them we didn't have a
good view and they said that that was
the destruction to push us back we've
seen some of our colleagues last week
when they went to visit Palestinian
prisoners being released as part of that
ceasefire they were also uh manhandled
by the Israeli
forces and this just gives you an idea
of the atmosphere in occupied East
Jerusalem as well as the occupied
territories people are shutting their
stores early for fear of things like
this of scenes like this they are
worried will be arrested any moment just
for crossing the road as one person told
us and throwing rubbish they were
questioned over that and they were uh
given a showdown and then were
threatened to be arrested you have them
turning up preventing anyone from
posting on social media in solidarity
with Palestinians in Gaza